docs(design/autoware-interfaces): add sensing interface (#328)
autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation: docs/design/autoware-interfaces/components/sensing.md

# Sensing

![Node diagram](images/Sensing-Bus-ODD-Architecture.drawio.svg)

## Inputs

### The sensing module contains the driver for the sensor, so there is no input

## Output

### Camera image

Image data from camera. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/Image](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Image.html)

### Lidar original pointcloud

Pointcloud without preprocessing. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

### Lidar filtered pointcloud

Pointcloud after preprocessing. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

> ### Radar pointcloud

Reviewer: Thanks for your PR. Is this description based on any current implementation?

@scepter914 mentioned the radar interface in this discussion and proposed using RadarScan/RadarTracks.
https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531

Author: At first, I wrote it based on the input and output of all nodes in the sensing module. RadarScan/RadarTracks should be sent by the driver,  which is converted to pointcloud by RadarScanToPointcloud2Node in the sensing module, so I didn't write this topic into the output of the sensing module. 
Actually, I'm not sure which one to use

Reviewer: @beginningfan Sorry for my late reply.
As you said, there is also a Pointcloud2 interface, but in the current implementation, RadarTracks are input to the perception layer for fusing with LiDAR detected objects.
https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/blob/main/launch/tier4_perception_launch/launch/object_recognition/detection/lidar_radar_based_detection.launch.xml
https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/tree/main/perception/radar_tracks_msgs_converter

How about adding a RadarTracks interface in parallel to Pointcloud2 interface?

Reviewer: Same as what @scepter914 said in discussion. :+1: 
https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531#discussion-4173490

Author: I have added RadarTracks, do I need to replace pointcloud with RadarScan? 
[#discussion-4173490](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531#discussion-4173490), there are only RadarScan and RadarTracks in the summary, but there are often pointclouds in the following diagrams.

Reviewer: @beginningfan Thanks!

> do I need to replace pointcloud with RadarScan?

Currently, the implementation status in the perception layer is as follows.
- RadarTracks: used by converting to TrackedObjects inside the perception layer
- RadarScan: currently not used
- Pointcloud2: no specific algorithm for RADAR Pointcloud, but can be commonly used as input to perception layer

For the above reasons, we think RadarTracks and pointcloud are good interfaces for sensing -> perception in the current status.

> Pointcloud frome radar. Used by the Perception.

Reviewer 2: Please check the spell (You can find it from the "Files changed" tab)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/44218668/227883077-81593c35-5012-4d14-bf89-a708078f7c73.png)

- [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

### Corrected IMU data

> Data corrected for yaw rate offset and standard deviation. Used by the Localization.

Reviewer 2: How about this? (Please be consistent with other parts too if you use this suggestion)

```suggestion
IMU data with yaw rate offset compensated (used by the Localization module)
```

Author: All done

- [sensor_msgs/Imu](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Imu.html)

> ### Vehicle pose

Reviewer 2: Which sensor data are you referring? (Maybe mistook the vehicle velocity?)

Author: The vehicle velocity information of the vehicle comes from the wheel speed sensor. Do you mean I should add this sensor?

Reviewer 2: Yes that's also my intention! So I have two questions:
- Which sensor are you referring to in "Vehicle pose"?
- Why did you excluded wheel speed sensor (that you've mentioned above)?

Author: My fault. I thought the IMU data had already obtained the vehicle velocity information, just like angular_velocity.
I will add this topic in my next submission

Author: The vehicle direction is from the steering wheel angle sensor, but the data of this sensor is directly sent to the control module by the vehicle chassis, but not the sensing module

Reviewer 2: I think vehicle direction is not included in steering wheel angle sensor. The steering angle is the different value from the vehicle direction (which is the yaw angle in the map coordinate). 

So seems there are two options? Let me hear your thought as well @YamatoAndo @yukkysaito @aohsato 

### A. Exclude vehicle information from this page
- Camera image
- ...
- Corrected IMU data

### B. Include vehicle sensor data as well
- Camera image
- ...
- Corrected IMU data
- Vehicle sensor data (steering angle & wheel odometry velocity)

Author: My previous statement is not clear.
What I would like to say is that the steering wheel angle sensor is a sensor related to the direction of the vehicle, but not related to the sensing module. Therefore, the information about this sensor is not mentioned in the document.
The vehicle pose is provided by the IMU.

Reviewer 2: > What I would like to say is that the steering wheel angle sensor is a sensor related to the direction of the vehicle, but not related to the sensing module. Therefore, the information about this sensor is not mentioned in the document.
Understood! Thanks for the clarification.

> The vehicle pose is provided by the IMU.
I don't think so. IMU only publishes angular velocity and acceleration in Autoware. (And furthermore, acceleration is currently not used)

Reviewer 3: I think it is better to describe the vehicle speed and steering information provided by the vehicle CAN in the vehicle interface page.
It is better to use only external sensors for the information described here.

Author: I took a look at my first version of the diagram( [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/82c16372fded0ffc982f84a39aa7cffaea2af953/docs/design/autoware-interfaces/components/images/Sensing-Bus-ODD-Architecture.drawio.svg) ). The sensor on the diagram corresponds to the output below. Here we can see that the pose refers to the initial position provided by GNSS。
So should we add which sensor the data comes from to the description of each output topic?

Author: Good idea! I will change this in the next submission

> Position of the ego vehicle. Used by the Localization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Position of the ego vehicle. Used by the Localization.
```
Not consistent with the previous subsections.

# Sensing

> ![Node diagram](images/Sensing-Bus-ODD-Architecture.drawio.svg)

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
```mermaid
graph TD
    cmp_drv("Drivers"):::cls_drv
    cmp_loc("Localization"):::cls_loc
    cmp_per("Perception"):::cls_per
    cmp_sen("Sensing"):::cls_sen

    msg_ult("<font size=2><b>Ultrasonic Range Array</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Range</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_img("<font size=2><b>Camera Image</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Image</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_ldr("<font size=2><b>Lidar Point Cloud</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/PointCloud2</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_rdr("<font size=2><b>Radar Tracks</b></font size>
    <font size=1>TBD</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnss("<font size=2><b>GNSS Message</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/NavSatFix</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_ins("<font size=2><b>INS Message</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Imu</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnssvel("<font size=2><b>GNSS Velocity</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/TwistStamped</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_ult_sen("<font size=2><b>Ultrasonic Range Array</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Range</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_img_sen("<font size=2><b>Camera Image</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Image</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pc_combined_rdr("<font size=2><b>Combined Radar Tracks</b></font size>
    <font size=1>TBD</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pc_combined_ldr("<font size=2><b>Combined Lidar Point Cloud</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/PointCloud2</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_ins_sen("<font size=2><b>INS Message</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Imu</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_gnssvel_sen("<font size=2><b>GNSS Velocity</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/TwistStamped</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pose_gnss("<font size=2><b>GNSS Pose</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/PoseWithCovarianceStamped</font size>"):::cls_sen
    

    cmp_drv --> msg_ult --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_img --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_rdr --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_ldr --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnss --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_ins --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnssvel --> cmp_sen
    
    cmp_sen --> msg_ult_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_img_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_ins_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_gnssvel_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_pc_combined_rdr
    cmp_sen --> msg_pc_combined_ldr
    cmp_sen --> msg_pose_gnss

    msg_ult_sen --> cmp_per
    msg_img_sen --> cmp_per
    msg_pc_combined_rdr --> cmp_per
    msg_pc_combined_ldr --> cmp_per

    msg_pc_combined_ldr --> cmp_loc
    msg_ins_sen --> cmp_loc
    msg_gnssvel_sen --> cmp_loc
    msg_pose_gnss --> cmp_loc

classDef cls_drv fill:#F8CECC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_loc fill:#D5E8D4,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_per fill:#FFF2CC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_sen fill:#FFE6CC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
```
````

Following from the [original diagram](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1amCZ8sxCuY1isEVhGw99oKeIoqfV25Po/view?usp=sharing), what do you think about using this diagram?

Reviewer 4: You can edit/view it under [here.](https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNq9V2Fr2zAQ_StG_bJBSmjZRutlgc1ORqArock2GIagyhdHVJaMpKRNS__7zqmdOJ5dO2NZPhndu3tPJz1JeSJMhUBcEmmaLJypH0gHfyxOZqFevQmIr_kKtAnIW9d1mTDp8A4jFEPMlWJU8EdquZI7IMZ2wAQ0AsegGST7MIzsYAYkwiYgDZfRDoPDgXxBxSaaLYVFVG-upHUMf4RP5_3ebf-7sJoaJTlzbqiMwPmsNV33urf9XncL7b9UKeSe9bG6UXqGlU13k7mH35_4TgSPowoRHo1BU2cU07TMQdRZTgtqEeoK6iseUu2MFcdRT6hleCD_JnOTeN5Kha5UcUNTFVNN2Z1pIWD6xW9FFkljKti-Xk8mzjcw5vB2X9PVhNohf2i32rKKfnT9t-yjeNl63isQdVP_Aegybtvs8ghUDFavX_in99zYiaVxAmErIei5zJ3_23cl86PvaoQcx3sl-oTNmIpvuYSwxgFeFnb-lRVeUSBeV3D0I6G8NtLUrM0RnFLizpxSw39st5TXSBl49cwaI-BgGWnST24XnlpRzalk0KwpLZkry2515_S0n3t6853dvNUg9FszCJ3QDBJtQGnTWoiSpl0p3BF_AvfeG8Vu7NcqBrNTpyYoTX2wsC-rAaUTpRkkakH5rqs4uLdd2L63CtOqDpaENYNEGdQM2z4SC32sDhb6WA3Yzn4_HEgmqDE-zJ3sWnPmXAj3ZHjhDTyvY6xWd-CeXF5eZt-n9zy0C_csefhYSsaCWbL_fnDhvzsoGTuSMw-H5wcyp7POkwcfmpJJh-BVGFMe4sv-KW1RQOwCYgiIi58hzClui4AE8hmhdGnVZC0Zca1eQocsk5Ba8DnF_wQxcedUmO3oIORW6RyZUPlLqRzz_Bt72SwN)

Author: [There](https://github.com/beginningfan/autoware-documentation/commit/82c16372fded0ffc982f84a39aa7cffaea2af953) is the first version of the diagram I drew, which is similar to yours. But at the suggestion of [others](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/pull/328#discussion_r1139748156), what driver related content was deleted. I am not sure which one is better.

Reviewer 5: From the discussion from this [issue](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/issues/3466), I think it is better to use mermaid. I have updated Fatih's diagram to match with the rest of the description in this page.

````suggestion
```mermaid
graph TD
    cmp_drv("Drivers"):::cls_drv
    cmp_loc("Localization"):::cls_loc
    cmp_per("Perception"):::cls_per
    cmp_sen("Preprocessors"):::cls_sen

    msg_ult("<font size=2><b>Ultrasonics</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Range</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_img("<font size=2><b>Camera Image</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Image</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_ldr("<font size=2><b>Lidar Point Cloud</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/PointCloud2</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_rdr("<font size=2><b>Radar Tracks</b></font size>
    <font size=1>radar_msgs/RadarTracks</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnss("<font size=2><b>GNSS-INS Position</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/NavSatFix</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnssori("<font size=2><b>GNSS-INS Orientation</b></font size>
    <font size=1>autoware_sensing_msgs/GnssInsOrientationStamped</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnssvel("<font size=2><b>GNSS Velocity</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_gnssacc("<font size=2><b>GNSS Acceleration</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped</font size>"):::cls_drv

    msg_ult_sen("<font size=2><b>Ultrasonics</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Range</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_img_sen("<font size=2><b>Camera Image</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Image</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pc_combined_rdr("<font size=2><b>Combined Radar Tracks</b></font size>
    <font size=1>radar_msgs/RadarTracks</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pc_combined_ldr("<font size=2><b>Combined Lidar Point Cloud</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/PointCloud2</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_pose_gnss("<font size=2><b>GNSS-INS Pose</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/PoseWithCovarianceStamped</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_gnssori_sen("<font size=2><b>GNSS-INS Orientation</b></font size>
    <font size=1>sensor_msgs/Imu</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_gnssvel_sen("<font size=2><b>GNSS Velocity</b></font size>
    <font size=1>geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped</font size>"):::cls_sen

    msg_gnssacc_sen("<font size=2><b>GNSS-INS Acceleration</b></font size>
    <font size=1>autoware_sensing_msgs/GnssInsOrientationStamped</font size>"):::cls_sen
    

    cmp_drv --> msg_ult --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_img --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_rdr --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_ldr --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnss --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnssori --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnssvel --> cmp_sen
    cmp_drv --> msg_gnssacc --> cmp_sen
    
    cmp_sen --> msg_ult_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_img_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_gnssori_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_gnssvel_sen
    cmp_sen --> msg_pc_combined_rdr
    cmp_sen --> msg_pc_combined_ldr
    cmp_sen --> msg_pose_gnss
    cmp_sen --> msg_gnssacc_sen

    msg_ult_sen --> cmp_per
    msg_img_sen --> cmp_per
    msg_pc_combined_rdr --> cmp_per
    msg_pc_combined_ldr --> cmp_per

    msg_pc_combined_ldr --> cmp_loc
    msg_pose_gnss --> cmp_loc
    msg_gnssori_sen --> cmp_loc
    msg_gnssvel_sen --> cmp_loc
    msg_gnssacc_sen --> cmp_loc

classDef cls_drv fill:#F8CECC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_loc fill:#D5E8D4,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_per fill:#FFF2CC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
classDef cls_sen fill:#FFE6CC,stroke:#999,stroke-width:1px;
```
````

Author: There may be a mistake with the type of `GNSS-INS Acceleration` in outputs. I checked the definition of `autoware_sensing_msgs/GnssInsOrientationStamped` in [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware_msgs/blob/main/autoware_sensing_msgs/msg/GnssInsOrientationStamped.msg). I don't think it can express acceleration information. @mitsudome-r @xmfcx

Reviewer 5: You are right, it is meant to be AccelerationWithCovarianceStamped.
I have updated my suggestion.

Reviewer 5: Here's the README from sensing_msgs package referring to acceleration: https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware_msgs/tree/main/autoware_sensing_msgs#acceleration

Author: All done

## Inputs

### The sensing module contains the driver for the sensor, so there is no input

## Output

### Camera image

Image data from camera. Used by the Perception.

> - [sensor_msgs/Image](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Image.html)

Author: I wrote this because other documents use noetic message type links, such as [control](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/blob/bb9cbd3cbca4c8f753b8f1323a91673459e1e2ff/docs/design/autoware-interfaces/components/control.md?plain=1#L11)

I will update all messages in sensing document soon.

### Radar tracks

Tracks from radar. Used by the Perception.

> - [radar_msgs/RadarTracks](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/radar_msgs/html/msg/RadarTracks.html)

Reviewer 5: I think we are still open with the message type. Let' make it TBD for now.

Reviewer 4: Related discussion: https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [radar_msgs/RadarTracks](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarTracks.msg)
```

[I will try to end the discussion](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531#discussioncomment-5977058), I think it's OK to use https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/tree/ros2/msg in the pipeline.

> ### Radar pointcloud

Reviewer 6: From [my initial proposal](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531#discussion-4173490), we suggest

- [ros-perception/radar_msgs/msg/RadarScan.msg](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarScan.msg) for radar pointcloud.
- [ros-perception/radar_msgs/msg/RadarTracks.msg](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarTracks.msg) for radar object.

If you follow our proposal as [your comment](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/2531#discussioncomment-5977058), 
I think radar section of this document should be written as below.

```
### Radar objects

Objects information from radar. Used by the Perception.

- [radar_msgs/RadarTracks](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/radar_msgs/html/msg/RadarTracks.html)

### Radar pointcloud

Pointcloud from radar. Used by the Perception.

- [ros-perception/radar_msgs/msg/RadarScan.msg](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarScan.msg) for radar pointcloud.
```

If we need to continue to discuss radar data definition, 
I agree with [this comment](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/pull/328#discussion_r1190713838) and I would like to leave it TBD for now.

Reviewer 4: @scepter914 ,

So we should differentiate between radar point clouds and radar objects, is that correct?

```md
### Radar objects

Objects information from radar. Used by the Perception.

- [radar_msgs/msg/RadarTracks.msg](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarTracks.msg)

### Radar pointcloud

Point cloud from radar. Used by the Perception.

- [radar_msgs/msg/RadarScan.msg](https://github.com/ros-perception/radar_msgs/blob/ros2/msg/RadarScan.msg) for radar pointcloud.
```

I've fixed the link for the radar track. I think we don't need to discuss it further for now and we can go with your proposal.

Reviewer 5: From yesterday's discussion, we agreed that we can go with RadarTrack and RadarScan messages.

Author: Radar's description has been updated

Reviewer 6: @xmfcx 

Thank you for your consideration.

> So we should differentiate between radar point clouds and radar objects, is that correct?

Yes.
The output specification depends on radar device.

Pointcloud after preprocessing. Used by the Perception.

> - [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

Reviewer 2: Which topic are you referring to with these two "LiDAR original pointcloud" and "LiDAR filtered pointcloud"? 

Localization and perception module also uses preprocessed pointcloud.

Author: "filtered pointcloud" means "preprocessed pointcloud", because there are various filters in the pointcloud_preprocessor.
We usually use /sensing/lidar/top/rectified/pointcloud as an initial pointcloud in perception module and subscribe directly to topics from lidar driver.
As to localization, we didn't pay much attention to the changes in the new version. I will fix it soon

Reviewer 2: I think we can just say that perception and localization module uses "preprocessed pointcloud". Both module do not use raw pointcloud data.

Author: All done

# Sensing

![Node diagram](images/Sensing-Bus-ODD-Architecture.drawio.svg)

> ## Inputs

Author: Many drivers publish sensor data in the form of topics. What I want to express on the diagram is that the sensing module needs to subscribe to the topics of these drive nodes

> ## Inputs

Reviewer 3: I see
But, the sensing component also includes sensor driver nodes.
Is there a better way to write this?
cc @xmfcx @mitsudome-r @kenji-miyake @aohsato @miursh

> ## Inputs

Reviewer 5: I think we can just say that the inputs to sensor modules are hardware specific, and if we think that raw data output is also important then we can add them under outputs.

> ## Inputs

Reviewer 7: > I think we can just say that the inputs to sensor modules are hardware specific, and if we think that raw data output is also important then we can add them under "outputs" section.

I agree with that, and also I think point cloud input of the perception stack's concatenated point cloud.

> ## Inputs

Author: > > I think we can just say that the inputs to sensor modules are hardware specific, and if we think that raw data output is also important then we can add them under "outputs" section.
> 
> I agree with that, and also I think point cloud input of the perception stack's concatenated point cloud.

I will delete those subscribed topics in the next submission

### Radar scan

Origin data from radar scan. Published by the Radar driver.

- [radar_msgs/RadarScan](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/radar_msgs/html/msg/RadarScan.html)

### Radar tracks

Origin data from radar scan. Published by the Radar driver.

- [radar_msgs/RadarTracks](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/radar_msgs/html/msg/RadarTracks.html)

### IMU

Origin data from IMU. Published by the IMU driver.

- [sensor_msgs/Imu](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Imu.html)

### GNSS

Origin data from GNSS. Published by the GNSS driver.

- [sensor_msgs/NavSatFix](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/NavSatFix.html)

## Output

### Camera image

Image data from camera. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/Image](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Image.html)

### Lidar filtered pointcloud

Pointcloud after preprocession. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

### Radar pointcloud

Pointcloud frome radar. Used by the Perception.

- [sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)

> ### Corrected IMU date

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Corrected IMU data
```

Author: Sorry, I wrote a typo

Reviewer 3: Never mind. I typo a lot too :+1:

Data corrected for yaw rate offset and standard deviation. Used by the Localization.

- [sensor_msgs/Imu](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/Imu.html)

### Vehicle pose

Position of the ego vehicle. Used by the Localization

- [geometry_msgs/PoseStamped](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/geometry_msgs/html/msg/PoseStamped.html)

> - [geometry_msgs/PoseWithCovarianceStamped](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/geometry_msgs/html/msg/PoseWithCovarianceStamped.html)

Reviewer 3: Can you review this section?
@kminoda @YamatoAndo

> - [geometry_msgs/PoseWithCovarianceStamped](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/geometry_msgs/html/msg/PoseWithCovarianceStamped.html)

Reviewer 3: Can you review this section?
@kminoda @YamatoAndo

Reviewer 8: @kminoda Could you please review this?
